The KBQC is made up of a group-wise inference system and anomaly detection modules that were trained using historical priors from 296 patients with locally advanced prostate and lung cancer (CTs). The inference system uses shape, relationship, and intensity information to distinguish between various organs. The inference system uses posterior probabilities from support vector machine (SVM), discriminant subspace ensemble (DSE), and artificial neural network (ANN) classifiers to solve a combinatorial optimization problem for a given set of delineated images, producing an organ group whose relational features match those of the training set.
These classifiers undergo 10-fold crossvalidation training on non-relational features. The anomaly detection module consists of a bank of ANN autoencoders trained on nonrelational characteristics, with each corresponding to a different organ. When the feature reconstruction error and the classifier's posterior probability exceed predetermined organ-specific thresholds, a heuristic rule is used to identify anomalous organs. The overall effectiveness of the KBQC system was evaluated using independent data sets with anomalous delineations. The atypical delineations were altered by hand, created by computer, or spread based on a transformation produced by inaccurate registrations. Regions of interest (ROIs) in two distinct test cohorts were classified as normal or abnormal using a peer-review-based grading system and the shape similarity coefficient (DSC). 


Note :: Jan24, 2023 Tuesday
The purpose of the study was to develop a system to reduce errors in organ delineations used for radiotherapy treatment planning. The system, called a knowledge based quality control (KBQC) system, is designed to discriminate between valid and anomalous delineations. The KBQC system is comprised of a group wise inference system and anomaly detection modules. The group wise inference system uses features such as shape, relational, and intensity features to discriminate between different organs. The anomaly detection module is a bank of artificial neural network (ANN) auto encoders, each corresponding with an organ, trained on non relational features. The KBQC system was tested on independent data sets with anomalous delineations, and the results showed that the system was able to detect anomalous delineations with superior accuracy compared to other classification methods
